AWS ingest and monitoring doc redesign (#3684)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/cloud-monitoring/aws/monitor-aws-vpc-flow-logs.asciidoc

- Elastic Observability’s anomaly feature to identify anomalies in the logs
- Out-of-the-box dashboard to further analyze the data

[discrete]
[[aws-firehose-prerequisites]]
== Before you begin

We assume that you already have:

- A deployment using our hosted {ess} on {ess-trial}[{ecloud}]. The deployment includes an {es} cluster for storing and searching your data, and {kib} for visualizing and managing your data. AWS Kinesis Data Firehose works with Elastic Stack version 7.17 or greater, running on Elastic Cloud only.

IMPORTANT: Make sure the deployment is on AWS, because the Firehose delivery stream connects specifically to an endpoint that needs to be on AWS.

- An AWS account with permissions to pull the necessary data from AWS.
- VPC flow logs enabled for the VPC where the application is deployed and configured to send data to Kinesis Data Firehose.
- A https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-three-tier-web-architecture-workshop[three-tier web architecture in AWS], which can ingest metrics from https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/aws[several AWS services].

[discrete]
[[aws-firehose-discover]]
== Use Elastic Analytics Discover to manually analyze data

> In Elastic Analytics, you can search and filter your data, get information about the structure of the fields, and display your findings in a visualization. You can also customize and save your searches and place them on a dashboard. For more information, check the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/discover.html[Discover] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Elastic Analytics, you can search and filter your data, get information about the structure of the fields, and display your findings in a visualization. You can also customize and save your searches and place them on a dashboard. For more information, check the {kibana-ref}/discover.html[Discover] documentation.
```

You want to see what IP addresses are trying to hit your web servers. Then, you want to understand which IP addresses you’re getting the most `REJECT` actions from. You can expand the `source.ip` field and quickly get a breakdown that shows `185.156.73.54` is the most rejected for the last 3 or more hours you’ve turned on VPC flow logs.

[role="screenshot"]
image::discover-ip-addresses.png[IP addresses in Discover]

You can also create a visualization by choosing *Visualize*. You get the following donut chart, which you can add to a dashboard.

[role="screenshot"]
image::discover-visualize-chart.png[Visualization chart in Discover]

On top of the IP addresses, you also want to know what port is being hit on your web servers.

If you select the destination port field, the pop-up shows that port `8081` is being targeted. This port is generally used for the administration of Apache Tomcat. This is a potential security issue, however port `8081` is turned off for outside traffic, hence the `REJECT`.

[role="screenshot"]
image::discover-destination-port.png[Destination port in Discover]

[discrete]
[[aws-firehose-ml]]
== Use Machine Learning to detect anomalies

> Elastic Observability provides the ability to detect anomalies on logs using Machine Learning (ML). To learn more on how to use the ML analysis with your logs, check the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/8.5/xpack-ml.html[Machine learning] documentation. You can select the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elastic Observability provides the ability to detect anomalies on logs using Machine Learning (ML). To learn more about how to use the ML analysis with your logs, check the {kibana-ref}/xpack-ml.html[Machine learning] documentation. You can select the following options:
```

- Log rate: Automatically detects anomalous log entry rates
- Categorization: Automatically categorizes log messages

[role="screenshot"]
image::ml-anomalies-detection.png[Anomalies detection with ML]

For your VPC flow log, you can enable both features. When you look at what was detected for anomalous log entry rates, you get the following results:

[role="screenshot"]
image::ml-anomalies-results.png[Anomalies results with ML]

Elastic detected a spike in logs when you turned on VPC flow logs for your application. The rate change is being detected because you’re also ingesting VPC flow logs from another application.

You can drill down into this anomaly with ML and analyze further.

[role="screenshot"]
image::ml-anomalies-explorer.png[Anomalies explorer in ML]

Because you know that a spike exists, you can also use the Elastic AIOps Labs Explain Log Rate Spikes capability. By grouping them, you can see what is causing some of the spikes.

[role="screenshot"]
image::ml-spike.png[Spikes in ML]

[discrete]
[[aws-firehose-dashboard]]
== Use the VPC flow log dashboard

> Elastic provides an out-of-the-box dashboard to show the top IP addresses hitting your VPC, geographically where they are coming from, the time series of the flows, and a summary of VPC flow log rejects within the time frame.

Reviewer: This sounds better to me. 🤷 

```suggestion
Elastic provides an out-of-the-box dashboard to show the top IP addresses hitting your VPC, where they are coming from geographically, the time series of the flows, and a summary of VPC flow log rejects within the time frame.
```
